README.md, before:

## BQML + LLM Forecasting & Interpretation Demo (Flask App)

This application demonstrates using BigQuery ML (BQML) for time series forecasting (ARIMA & TimesFM) on Google Analytics data, generating interpretations of model results using the Gemini API via Vertex AI, and displaying everything in a Flask web application deployed to Google App Engine.

### Prerequisites

1.  **Google Cloud Project:** You need a Google Cloud project with billing enabled.
2.  **gcloud CLI:** Install and initialize the [Google Cloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install).
3.  **Python & Pip:** Ensure you have Python 3.9+ and pip installed.
4.  **Git:** To clone the repository.

### Setup Instructions

1.  **Clone the Repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone <your-repo-url>
    cd <repository-directory> # Navigate to the directory containing app.py, etc.
    ```

2.  **Enable APIs:** Enable the necessary Google Cloud APIs for your project. You can do this via the Cloud Console or `gcloud`:
    ```bash
    gcloud services enable bigquery.googleapis.com \n        aiplatform.googleapis.com \n        appengine.googleapis.com \n        iap.googleapis.com \n        appengineflex.googleapis.com # Often needed for App Engine admin tasks
    ```

3.  **Create BigQuery Dataset:** Create a BigQuery dataset where the BQML models and results tables will be stored.
    ```bash
    bq mk --dataset YOUR_GCP_PROJECT_ID:YOUR_BQ_DATASET_ID
    ```
    Replace `YOUR_GCP_PROJECT_ID` with your project ID and `YOUR_BQ_DATASET_ID` with your desired dataset name (e.g., `bqml_llm_demo`).

4.  **Run the BQML SQL Script:** Execute the `arima_forecasting.sql` script to create the necessary views, models, and results tables. Pass your project and dataset IDs as parameters.
    ```bash
    bq query --use_legacy_sql=false \
             --parameter='project_id:STRING:YOUR_GCP_PROJECT_ID' \
             --parameter='dataset_id:STRING:YOUR_BQ_DATASET_ID' \
             < arima_forecasting.sql
    ```
    *(Alternatively, open the script in the BigQuery Console, declare the variables at the top, and run it.)*

5.  **Configure `app.yaml`:**
    *   Open the `app.yaml` file.
    *   Replace `YOUR_APP_ENGINE_SERVICE_NAME` with a unique name for your App Engine service (e.g., `bqml-llm-demo`).
    *   Replace `YOUR_APP_ENGINE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL` with the email of the service account App Engine should use. You can use the default App Engine service account (`YOUR_GCP_PROJECT_ID@appspot.gserviceaccount.com`) or create a dedicated one.
    *   Replace `YOUR_BIGQUERY_DATASET` under `env_variables` with the dataset ID you created in step 3.

6.  **Configure Service Account Permissions:** Ensure the service account specified in `app.yaml` has the following IAM roles in your project:
    *   `roles/bigquery.dataViewer` (BigQuery Data Viewer)
    *   `roles/bigquery.user` (BigQuery User)
    *   `roles/aiplatform.user` (Vertex AI User)
    *(If using the default App Engine SA, you might need to add these roles.)*

7.  **Set up Identity-Aware Proxy (IAP):**
    *   Go to the Google Cloud Console -> Security -> Identity-Aware Proxy.
    *   You might be prompted to configure an OAuth Consent Screen first. Fill in the required details (App name, support email). Crucially, add the **Authorized domains**:
        *   `YOUR_APP_ENGINE_SERVICE_NAME-dot-YOUR_GCP_PROJECT_ID.lm.r.appspot.com` (Replace placeholders with your service name and project ID).
        *   It's also often helpful to add `appspot.com`.
    *   Find your App Engine application in the IAP list.
    *   Toggle IAP **ON** for the App Engine app.
    *   Add principals (users or groups) who should have access. Grant them the `roles/iap.securedWebAppUser` (IAP-secured Web App User) role.

8.  **Install Python Dependencies:**
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

9.  **Deploy to App Engine:**
    ```bash
    gcloud app deploy app.yaml --project YOUR_GCP_PROJECT_ID
    ```
    Follow the prompts. Deployment might take a few minutes.

10. **Access the Application:** Once deployed, `gcloud` will output the URL for your service (usually `https://YOUR_APP_ENGINE_SERVICE_NAME-dot-YOUR_GCP_PROJECT_ID.lm.r.appspot.com`). Access this URL in your browser. You will be prompted to sign in via Google (due to IAP), using an account that you granted access to in step 7.

Commit message:

Enhance application setup and UI: Initialize Gemini model after Vertex AI SDK, update app.yaml with placeholders for service and account names, improve README for clarity, and refine HTML styling for interpretation sections.

README.md, after:

![Application Screenshot](screen.png)

## BQML + LLM Forecasting & Interpretation Demo 

This application demonstrates using BigQuery ML (BQML) for time series forecasting (ARIMA & TimesFM) on Google Analytics data, generating interpretations of model results using the Gemini API via Vertex AI, and displaying everything in a Flask web application deployed to Google App Engine. A key feature is the use of a Large Language Model (LLM) to provide natural language explanations and commentary on the ARIMA model evaluation and contribution analysis insights.

### Prerequisites

1.  **Google Cloud Project:** You need a Google Cloud project with billing enabled.
2.  **gcloud CLI:** Install and initialize the [Google Cloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install).
3.  **Python & Pip:** Ensure you have Python 3.9+ and pip installed.
4.  **Git:** To clone the repository.

### Setup Instructions

1.  **Clone the Repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone <your-repo-url>
    cd <repository-directory> # Navigate to the directory containing app.py, etc.
    ```

2.  **Enable APIs:** Enable the necessary Google Cloud APIs for your project. You can do this via the Cloud Console or `gcloud`:
    ```bash
    gcloud services enable bigquery.googleapis.com \
        aiplatform.googleapis.com \
        appengine.googleapis.com \
        appengineflex.googleapis.com # Often needed for App Engine admin tasks
    ```

3.  **Create BigQuery Dataset:** Create a BigQuery dataset where the BQML models and results tables will be stored.
    ```bash
    bq mk --dataset YOUR_GCP_PROJECT_ID:YOUR_BQ_DATASET_ID
    ```
    Replace `YOUR_GCP_PROJECT_ID` with your project ID and `YOUR_BQ_DATASET_ID` with your desired dataset name (e.g., `bqml_llm_demo`).

4.  **Run the BQML SQL Script:** Execute the `arima_forecasting.sql` script to create the necessary views, models, and results tables. Pass your project and dataset IDs as parameters.
    ```bash
    bq query --use_legacy_sql=false \
             --parameter='project_id:STRING:YOUR_GCP_PROJECT_ID' \
             --parameter='dataset_id:STRING:YOUR_BQ_DATASET_ID' \
             < arima_forecasting.sql
    ```
    *(Alternatively, open the script in the BigQuery Console, declare the variables at the top, and run it.)*

5.  **Configure `app.yaml`:**
    *   Open the `app.yaml` file.
    *   Replace `YOUR_APP_ENGINE_SERVICE_NAME` with a unique name for your App Engine service (e.g., `bqml-llm-demo`).
    *   Replace `YOUR_APP_ENGINE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL` with the email of the service account App Engine should use. You can use the default App Engine service account (`YOUR_GCP_PROJECT_ID@appspot.gserviceaccount.com`) or create a dedicated one.
    *   Replace `YOUR_BIGQUERY_DATASET` under `env_variables` with the dataset ID you created in step 3.

6.  **Configure Service Account Permissions:** Ensure the service account specified in `app.yaml` has the following IAM roles in your project:
    *   `roles/bigquery.dataViewer` (BigQuery Data Viewer)
    *   `roles/bigquery.user` (BigQuery User)
    *   `roles/aiplatform.user` (Vertex AI User)
    *(If using the default App Engine SA, you might need to add these roles.)*

7.  **Install Python Dependencies:**
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

8.  **Deploy to App Engine:**
    ```bash
    gcloud app deploy app.yaml --project YOUR_GCP_PROJECT_ID
    ```
    Follow the prompts. Deployment might take a few minutes.

9. **Access the Application:** Once deployed, `gcloud` will output the URL for your service (usually `https://YOUR_APP_ENGINE_SERVICE_NAME-dot-YOUR_GCP_PROJECT_ID.lm.r.appspot.com`). Access this URL in your browser.
